This is an answer to "the 13 prisoner riddle" which is listed below:


The warden gathers 13 prisoners who are on death row. He tells them all that they will be executed unless they can solve this riddle.

One by one they will be sent to a separate room that contains two switches, which can be turned on or off. There is nothing connected to these switches.
Any prisoner who enters is able to see if either switch is on or off when they enter the room.

When a prisoner gets called from their cell they will enter the room, flip exactly one switch one time, and head back to their cell.
They may not have contact with any of the other prisoners before, during, or after.

The warden may call any prisoner, in any order, any number of times, for as long as he wants, but he WILL call every prisoner in to flip a switch at some point.

At some point during this, one prisoner must raise their hand and claim that he or she knows for a fact that all of the prisoners have been in the room.

If they are correct, all prisoners may live.
If wrong, they will die.
The prisoners get one hour to devise a plan.

How do they do it?

ADDITIONAL NOTES:
-No marks, scratches, or any other form of communication outside of flipping the switches is permitted.
-The switches are not connected to anything.
-Switches are in an ON/OFF position
-Time doesn't matter for this riddle, the warden could call the same prisoner a million times in a row if desired, then call another prisoner, then go BACK to the first.

Answer in words below, proof of the answer is running the code.


!SPOILERS!


First the prisoners will choose a leader. That leader will be the "counter" who will keep track of who all has been in the room.

The prisoners have two rules.

1: The leader will flip the first switch OFF whenever he enters and count up one. If unable, he will flip the second switch and not count.
2: The other prisoners will, on their FIRST entrance, flip the first switch ON if able. if unable, or if not on first entrance, they will flip the second switch.

When the leader counts to 13 he will know everyone has been in the room and raise his hand.

BUT! There is a chance that the first switch started in the ON position, meaning that there will be an extra count where no one had entered, meaning failure.
To insure this doesn't happen, the prisoners will do two iterations.
Meaning instead of everyone flipping the first switch on the first time, they will do first AND second.

Meaning the leader will actually raise their hand on the number 25. 13(for all the prisoners) + 12(all the prisoners again BUT the leader) will insure everyone has entered.

To prove this method works, I've set up the parameters and a check in the code. Feel free to run it and try it yourself!
And if there is another way to make this work please feel free to tell me!



